**Overview on Existing Publications for Real-World Head and Neck Cancer Studies**

Regarding existing publications that discuss real-world studies of squamous cell head and neck cancer,  the following two articles describe real-world, non-clinical reviews of patient databases that yield more realistic information on patient outcomes, survival, and adverse events, as well as the factors that most dramatically impact survival rates. In the study entitled “Therapeutic decision making in stages III and IV head and neck squamous cell carcinoma” published in the Archives of Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery, real-world data of 591 consecutive patients with stage III and IV head and neck squamous cell carcinoma treated at a university medical center from 1992 to 2000 was analyzed and evaluated for survival rates. Overall survival was 48%, 40%, and 33% at 2, 3, and 5 years, respectively, with patients whose tumors were treated surgically showing overall better survival rates than patients who were treated primarily with radiation therapy. Age, comorbidities, and advanced cancer stage were found to have the most impact and were the strongest predictors of survival. This abstract can be found at the following address on PubMed (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12525191). Another study, entitled “Treatment and costs for recurrent and/or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck in the Netherlands” and published in the European Archives of Otorhinolaryngology, focused on obtaining real-world information on palliative chemotherapy for patients with recurrent and/or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Data on patient and tumor characteristics, treatment patterns, disease progression, survival rates, adverse events, and resource use were collected from six Dutch head and neck treatment centers. Median progression-free survival and overall survival were 3.4 and 6 months, respectively, and 27% of the patients experienced severe adverse events, which were observed most often in patients receiving combination therapy. However, it should be noted that this study focused primarily on the effects and costs of palliative chemotherapy, rather than standard radiation or surgical therapies for squamous cell head and neck cancer. This abstract can be found at the following address on PubMed (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25876000).
