**Joseph Kim, MD, FACS
Associate Professor of Surgery, City of Hope National Medical Center**
Dr. Kim is an Associate Professor of Surgery and the Director of the Surgical Oncology Fellowship Program at City of Hope National Medical Center. He also holds a position as Clinical Assistant Professor at Western University of Health Sciences and currently serves on the editorial board of World Journal of Gastrointestinal Surgery. Throughout his career, Dr. Kim has published numerous research articles and abstracts, served on several scientific committees, and presented invited lectures around the world, from Hawaii to Nigeria to South Korea. He received his bachelor’s degree in chemistry from Northwestern University and his medical degree from the Loyola University Chicago Stritch School of Medicine. He then completed his internship and residency in surgery at the University of Cincinnati School of Medicine, followed by fellowships in molecular and surgical oncology at the John Wayne Cancer Institute and Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.

**Robert J. Amato, DO
Professor of Oncology
University of Texas Medical School**

Dr. Robert J. Amato is a Professor and Acting Director of the Division of Oncology at the University of Texas Medical School at Houston, Texas, and the Chief of the Division of Oncology at Memorial Hermann Cancer Center TMC. He is considered one of the world’s leading experts in the treatment of genitourinary cancer. Dr. Amato is an author of an extensive list of publications and presentations and has served as principal or co-principal investigator for more than 45 clinical trials. He has also served on editorial boards and as a reviewer for numerous professional publications throughout the world. Dr. Amato earned his medical degree from the Texas College of Osteopathic Medicine at the University of North Texas in Fort Worth, Texas, where he also completed his residency in Internal Medicine. His fellowship in Oncology was completed at the MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas.

**John Paul Fruehauf, MD, PhD
Director, Clinical Pharmacology and Developmental Therapeutics
University of California, Irvine**

Dr. John Fruehauf is a Professor of Clinical Medicine, Biological Chemistry, Pharmaceutical Sciences, and Biomedical Engineering at the University of California, Irvine. He is also the Director of Clinical Pharmacology and Developmental Therapeutics at the Chao Family Comprehensive Cancer Research Center in Orange, California. His research focuses on the convergence of biotechnology, molecular biology, and clinical pharmacology with bioinformatics to enable targeting of complex cancer-related pathways and improving outcomes for patients with cancer. Dr. Fruehauf received his medical degree and Ph.D. in Pharmacology from Rush University in Chicago, Illinois. He completed a residency in Internal Medicine at the University of California, Irvine, and a fellowship in Biotechnology with the Clinical Oncology Program at the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Maryland.

**Overview on Existing Publications for Real-World Head and Neck Cancer Studies**

Regarding existing publications that discuss real-world studies of squamous cell head and neck cancer,  the following two articles describe real-world, non-clinical reviews of patient databases that yield more realistic information on patient outcomes, survival, and adverse events, as well as the factors that most dramatically impact survival rates. In the study entitled “Therapeutic decision making in stages III and IV head and neck squamous cell carcinoma” published in the Archives of Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery, real-world data of 591 consecutive patients with stage III and IV head and neck squamous cell carcinoma treated at a university medical center from 1992 to 2000 was analyzed and evaluated for survival rates. Overall survival was 48%, 40%, and 33% at 2, 3, and 5 years, respectively, with patients whose tumors were treated surgically showing overall better survival rates than patients who were treated primarily with radiation therapy. Age, comorbidities, and advanced cancer stage were found to have the most impact and were the strongest predictors of survival. This abstract can be found at the following address on PubMed (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12525191). Another study, entitled “Treatment and costs for recurrent and/or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck in the Netherlands” and published in the European Archives of Otorhinolaryngology, focused on obtaining real-world information on palliative chemotherapy for patients with recurrent and/or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Data on patient and tumor characteristics, treatment patterns, disease progression, survival rates, adverse events, and resource use were collected from six Dutch head and neck treatment centers. Median progression-free survival and overall survival were 3.4 and 6 months, respectively, and 27% of the patients experienced severe adverse events, which were observed most often in patients receiving combination therapy. However, it should be noted that this study focused primarily on the effects and costs of palliative chemotherapy, rather than standard radiation or surgical therapies for squamous cell head and neck cancer. This abstract can be found at the following address on PubMed (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25876000).
